well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about contingency plans seems like
everybody's got one right now especially
in the Senate Rand Paul has one Schumer
has one Graham has one even those
outside Pelosi certainly has one left
pardonnez definitely had one everybody
has a contingency plan and that's why
nobody can tell you what's going on
because there's a barrel for power a
whole bunch of if this then that type of
things and there's so many it's
impossible to guess but well we can't
really forecast those proceedings we can
use that to learn about something else
see look from the outside looking in I
would imagine that contingency plans as
far as the United States are concerned
that's our bread and butter that's what
we do you know that that's that's how we
deal with everything we have a plan for
everything the Department of Defense may
not appear to be successful if you look
at specific engagements but overall
what's the goal advance national
interest they're really good at that
because they have a plan for everything
and they've been doing this ever since
we became a world power when did we
become a world power at the end of World
War one that's when we really came into
our own that position was cemented
during World War two
at that point we were one of the the
tough kids on the block what did we do
in between those two wars developed
contingency plans we plan to go to war
with everybody and I mean everybody for
those sitting in the UK our plan to go
to war with you was called a war plan
red no joke see at the end of World War
one the United States found itself in a
new position we had a fleet a row one
for a change
which meant that we may run afoul of the
British because the United Kingdom has a
long history of using its fleet to
advance its national interests
so eventually those two paths may cross
so we couldn't really deal with it
directly because of distance so our plan
was pretty simple we're gonna go after
him indirectly we were just gonna invade
Canada
I'm not joking right now we had a plan
to invade Canada the thought behind it
was that was how the United Kingdom will
respond they would move troops there and
then South so we were just going to take
it over with specific attention paid to
Halifax because that's the port that was
imagined they would use to bring in
troops so it became really important to
deal with Halifax so important that we
came up with a really crazy plan to deal
with that gasps yeah and this to be
clear wasn't just like some guys in a
room with some maps some one-off
hypothetical no we went ahead and
started building airfields pretending
they were civilian airports in case we
ever had to do this people in the UK
right now they're like oh really yeah
really
yeah but don't you know get to to shock
you all have one too yeah and by the way
y'all were just gonna write off Canada
unless it could hold its own for like
six months or something we're just gonna
leave it to the United States let it
become part of the US you didn't figure
you'd be able to muster enough troops
fast enough to even worry about it so it
just became a loss you're gonna ride it
off leaf and twist it in the wind which
makes that Halifax thing a whole lot
worse because it would have been
completely unnecessary
the UK's war plan for dealing with the
United States was to go after our
far-flung possessions like the
Philippines places like that they're
just gonna kind of vacate this
hemisphere over here they're just going
to get out
and right now poor Canadians the u.s.
gas the Brits we're just gonna leave us
I mean what don't act all innocent y'all
had one too yeah I think it was called a
defense scheme one or something like
that because it's a pretty high priority
what's of a light fast-moving flying
columns if you will we're gonna drive
south into the United States those deep
as they could destroying infrastructure
along the way and then retreat back to
the back to Canada unless in some
situations like Seattle they thought
maybe they could hold it but for the
most part it was just to destroy as much
as possible and there was no plan to
defend Halifax which again made that
whole thing just that much creepier
what's the point all of this
these were allies allies and we had
plans to do this they had plans to do it
to us because defense needs consistency
it needs plans for everything we need to
be aware and they know what's going on
how do you think that meshes with
Trump's habit of ruling by tweeting
signing off
strategic partners that we've had for
average is riding them off getting rid
of them how many contingency plans do
you think involved them probably a lot
but now we can't count I can't use this
we got to come up with new ones or
deciding that we weren't going to vacate
when asked now we have to plan to do
that in every country because now it's a
possibility developing local partners
becomes incredibly hard because we never
know what Twitter is going to say
becomes more and more difficult when you
understand that you'll understand how
much the President of the United States
has undermined u.s. readiness his
landmine diplomacy affects other things
it affects the defense structure as well
and because that's what defense is war
is a continuation of politics by other
means when diplomacy fails the end up a
war it's what it is war is a failure of
diplomacy and when the diplomatic
efforts are concentrated on besting your
domestic rivals instead of advancing US
national interests while it creates a
problem this little thing and you cry
on its face it may not seem like a big
deal may just seem like one of the mill
corruption but the reality is it
literally undermined US national
security and Trump's less than
predictable nature has severely damaged
u.s. readiness because our allies don't
know what to expect so they have to
develop contingency plans too and they
can't count on us because they don't
know what we're gonna do I would not
want to be the next president of the
United States I wouldn't want to clean
up after this guy we need to enter that
into our national memory when all of
these tough situations occur it's not
the fault of the next person it's
Trump's fault he's the one that did this
he's the one that undermined us
readiness anyway it's just a fault y'all
have a good night